Let us write a program for checking whether the number is perfect number or not.
What is perfect number.
I'll explain you afterwards.
In the previous video we have seen factors of a number.
First of all I will show you how to find sum of the factors of a number.
What does it mean.
I want to add the factors one plus two plus four plus eight.
I want to add all these factors.
First of all let us learn how to add them.
Then I will show you a perfect number.
So how to add means for adding all these I should have one more variable.
What does that sum.
I will take sum initiative zero.
What I should do this is 0 plus 1, result is one.
Next time when I'm adding sum is 1 plus 2 It is 3.
Then here no need to add, and then 4 is a factor.
So I add it so three plus four is seven.
Then don't add don't add don't add.
Here again added.
So what with the last digit of sum, sum plus eight is 15.
So this how I can add the factor of a number.
So here is what I should write down sum assign some plus i,  this what I should do so instead of printing
the numbers I have added them.
So now you're already familiar with this I don't have to explain.
Now here there's no flowchart.
Already we have seen the flow chart in the previous program as a continuation of that.
So you have to develop the flow chart. so  it's like your homework.
Because if I draw a flow chart and explain and become very complex.
So we have already learned sufficient flow charts not directly, let us write the program.
So come to this side.
See this portion till here.
I was printing here earlier right, so  printing and adding so everything was there so everything
was as it is here.
I was printing so for print I was using C out.
I, now this time I don't have to cout i.
I have to add them.
So for that I have taken one more variable sum
I should say sum assign sum plus i, that's it.
So this is inside If so this end of for loop will give the sum of all these factors.
If you want to print you can say cout sum of factors is sum you can display this some will be displayed
that's it.
So this will become a program for finding the sum of the factors of a number.
You can try this one right there is a coding exercise available for this so you can complete it. now coming
to perfect number.
So actually we are going to find out what is a perfect number.
No I can explain you see what is the sum for all factors of 8 it is 15.
How is the number 8, 2*8 is how much 16.
But the number we got is 15.
So double that number is equal to the sum of the factors of a number.
No it's not a fact it's not a perfect number.
Then if I take 6 one of the factors of 6: 1 2 3 and 6 add them 12, so 2 x 6 is also 12.
See this is the sum of the factors of 6 and this is double the number 6.
So if the sum of the factors of a number is a double the number then it is perfect number that's the
definition.
If the sum of the factor for a number is double the number then it is the perfect number.
So for checking a number is perfect or not First of all they should have the sum of the factor.
So that's what already we have done.
Now instead of printing the sum I have to say whether the perfect number or not.
So I removed that and I will write down the condition.
Well let us say a condition here after finding sum I should check if two into number the number double
the number is equal to sum.
If it is equal to sum we will print cout.
Perfect.
No.
Right.
else,  if it is not equal.
Then cout.
Not a perfect
No.
Right.
Not perfect.
No.
That's all.
This is so simple.
So earlier I have just printed the sum.
No I'm checking or double the number is equal to sum see this has to be done after this loop right
after the for loop.
So afterwards check weather they are equal.
If so print this one.
See I'm not writing flower bracket because these are single lines only.
So that's all, this is a program for finding a perfect number.
So there is a coding excercise available even our demo is also available so finished recording exercise
and also write the program complete program by yourself.
Take the help of demo if you need.
So that's all in this video.
Now in next video.
Again the similar logic, again to similar logic.
Changes will make it as a new program.
So let us move to next topic.